[IMP] Luxembourg: update localization page (#14880)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/luxembourg.rst

- `337 - Appendix A - Papers and periodicals for business purposes`
- `343 - Appendix A - Shipping and transport expenses`
- `345 - Appendix A - Work clothes`
- `347 - Appendix A - Advertising and publicity`
- `349 - Appendix A - Packaging`
- `351 - Appendix A - Repair and maintenance of equipment and machinery`
- `353 - Appendix A - Other repairs`
- `355 - Appendix A - New acquisitions (tools and equipment) if their cost can be fully allocated to the year of acquisition or creation`
- `358 - Appendix A - Custom (value)`
- `361 - Appendix A - Total 'Appendix to Operational expenditures'`

Opening the declaration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Tax Report`.

In the :icon:`fa-book` :guilabel:`Report` selector, select :guilabel:`Annual VAT Declaration (LU)`.

In the :icon:`fa-calendar` (:guilabel:`Period`) selector, choose the fiscal year dates for which to
generate the declaration.

Completing the declaration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The annual declaration contains five sections labelled I to V, seven appendices labelled A to G, and
an additional Appendix to Operational Expenditures.

> Sections I and III, and Appendix A can be pre-populated automatically based on the :ref:`account tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sections I, III, and Appendix A can be pre-populated automatically based on the :ref:`account tag
```

Localization overview
=====================

The Luxembourgish localization includes the following features:

- :doc:`../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts`: a predefined set of accounts that follows the
  current official accounting standards (PCN 2020)
- :ref:`localizations/luxembourg/taxes`: pre-configured tax rates, including standard (17%),
  reduced (14%, 8% and 3%) and zero-rated VAT, intra-community, and zero-rated export taxes
- :doc:`../accounting/taxes/fiscal_positions`: automated tax adjustments based on customer or
  supplier registration status
- :ref:`localizations/luxembourg/e-invoicing`: E-invoicing with Peppol
- :ref:`localizations/luxembourg/tax-reporting`: detailed overview of your VAT liability, and
  generation of monthly and annual VAT declarations in XML format to upload to the eCDF platform
- :ref:`localizations/luxembourg/faia`: generation of audit files in the FAIA (Luxembourgish
  SAF-T) format

.. _localizations/luxembourg/taxes:

Taxes
-----

The following :doc:`taxes <../accounting/taxes>` are available by default with the Luxembourgish
localization package:

- standard VAT (17%): applied to most goods and services within Luxembourg

> - reduced VAT (14%, 8% and 3%): applied to some goods and services within Luxembourg

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- reduced VAT (14%, 8%, and 3%): applied to some goods and services within Luxembourg
```

- zero-rated VAT: applied to goods and services not subject to VAT
- intra-community VAT: applied to goods and services sold to or purchased from VAT-registered
  persons located in other EU countries
- export tax (0%): zero-rated tax applied to goods and services exported outside Luxembourg

.. _localizations/luxembourg/e-invoicing:

E-invoicing
-----------

Odoo users in Luxembourg can register on the :ref:`accounting/e-invoicing/peppol` network, which
allows exchanging e-invoices and credit notes with other participants on the network.

> E-invoicing via Peppol is mandatory for all B2G transactions in Luxembourg.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. important::
   E-invoicing via Peppol is mandatory for all B2G transactions in Luxembourg.
```
Let's also move this to come after the BIS Billing 3.0 line so that we aren't splitting up two short sentences with the important note. And just as a note explaining my reasoning here, if this section were longer, the BIS Billing line could also be in a note admonition block, but it would look strange to have two admonition blocks in a section that only has three sentences total :)

The e-invoice format in Luxembourg is **BIS Billing 3.0**.

.. _localizations/luxembourg/tax-reporting:

Tax reporting
=============

Both monthly and annual VAT declarations can be exported as XML files to upload on the
:abbr:`eCDF (plateforme électronique de Collecte des Données Financières)` platform.

> Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Statement Reports --> Tax Report`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Tax Report`.
```
In menu selection markups we only list the elements that actually need to be clicked on, so we'll leave out "Statement Reports" group name. This has the benefit of not needing to be changed for the later versions where it's placed under a different group as the devs switch things around on us ;)

> In the :guilabel:`Report` selector, choose :guilabel:`Tax Report (LU)` to view the monthly VAT declaration, or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the :icon:`fa-book` :guilabel:`Report` selector, choose :guilabel:`Tax Report (LU)` to view the monthly VAT declaration, or
```

:guilabel:`Annual VAT Declaration (LU)` to view the annual VAT declaration.

.. note:: The Annual VAT declaration comes populated with the amounts for the
   **simplified annual declaration**. The fields for the **complete annual declaration** are

>    available to be manually filled in if needed.

Reviewer 2: What fields are required for the complete annual declaration?

Author: I looked into this a bit further, and I think Odoo doesn't actually handle exporting the "simplified annual declaration".

The simplified annual declaration is for companies with a turnover of under €30,000 which are exempt from the VAT regime, so they don't collect or deduct VAT. These companies can fill in their simplified annual declaration directly on the eCDF website, but we don't handle exporting a simplified annual declaration as an XML.

However, the annual declaration generated by Odoo isn't complete in that it doesn't precisely indicate VAT debit amounts for each type of sale (e.g. VAT collected for sales of in-house manufactured goods, versus sales of goods not manufactured in-house). Odoo can't fill these sections precisely because it doesn't have knowledge of that information, so the user needs to manually distribute the total VAT debit for the year among those categories.

I've tried to explain this in the doc, and I would appreciate if you can take another look at it!

> Once the declaration is correct, click on :guilabel:`XML` in the cog menu to export it in XML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the declaration is correct, click the :icon:`fa-cog` (:guilabel:`action menu`) icon, then click :guilabel:`XML` to export it in XML
```
